hi I'm Roger Frampton and I'm a movement
coach from London and I'm author of the
book the flexible body so this position
is the squat
most people when I talk about the squat
thinking when I'm forming up and down
exercise it works your legs and bar
well the squat is actually a position
that we're designed to defecate in every
kid sits and rests in this position and
if we look at Western people I think
most people end up sitting up on their
toes more in this position while I'm
advising is that you get this position
back not for an exercise necessarily not
because of fitness or to be fitter but
just because you're designed to do it
this here is just the human resting
position so when I run classes people
always talk about the squat how they
can't quite get their heel down on the
floor now the reason for that is because
since about the age of four years old
you've been wearing shoes we are an
animal
we're designed to walk around on bare
feet and the reason that we'll lose our
squat mobility is simply because we come
to become tight in our ankles and
therefore you can't get all the way down
to the bottom now all you need to do is
if you put your heels on a yoga block or
a book you're in that position rather
than that position that will take away
your ankle mobility and allow you to get
all the way down now you can use a yoga
block or a book or two or three of them
if you're a girl squatting in heels it's
so much easier and squatting flat on the
floor so what you do is you start on
whatever angle you're comfortable in and
you work your way down to becoming flat
on the floor so really a squat is just a
test of your ankles if you've got good
ankles you're great at squatting and if
your ankles have become tight then squat
is really difficult and hard but like
every other muscle and joint in the body
is trainable and you've got time to get
it back if you do something for 10
minutes every day kind of like brushing
your teeth it gets into a habit and you
go you get up you brush your teeth go to
veggie brush your teeth so by doing 10
minutes every day
you'll get into the habit by playing
using just that short of a short amount
of time you can really focus on how your
body's anemic
now some of the exercises that I
recommend that you do within those 10
minutes first one is the squat sitting
in a squat not bobbing up and down just
being able to function to sit in the
squat something again is innate to us as
human beings and something that you are
able to do as a child so spend 10
minutes every day getting your squat
back
[Music]